- What is Goliath's process for enhancement requests and bugs?
        Whether you have an enhancement request or you encounter an issue, the first step is the same: open a support ticket with Goliath. That can be done using the link at the top of this page. Continue reading to learn about the next steps in the process.

- Product Issues
    After evaluating the issue, support will either resolve the issue with you or if it cannot be resolved and is determined to be a problem with the software, for example if the software is behaving in an unexpected way or if a feature is not functioning properly, then the support engineer will open a bug. They will let you know the bug number for your records.

- Product Enhancements
    After taking your request and any required details, the support engineer will open an enhancement request. They will also include the enhancement request issue number for your records.

- What Happens Next?
    After an issue is opened, it is reviewed by engineering and product management. Priority is assigned, details are gathered when needed, and the issue is added to a target release backlog. In the case of enhancements, Product Management may reach out for additional information. For bugs, additional details may be required, including support logs or version information, if it wasn't collected initially.

    As a release date gets closer, product management will reach out if any of your issues are included to let you know. In addition, on about a quarterly basis, product management will reach out to inform you of the status of all outstanding items you may have, if they're targeted for a release, and if an enhancement, if they have been accepted and included in a future update.

    Each issue that is accepted and targeted for release will include a priority designation, from a P1, which is the highest priority, critical issue, to a P4 which is the lowest. Priority determines not only the severity/importance of an issue, but also the likelihood of the issue being included in a release. Check out the next section below for more detail on priority assignments.


- Priorities Defined
    Goliath uses standard issue priority assignments for all issues.

    P1 - Critical/Blocker. Highest priority. "Showstopper" critical product issues that either prevent the product from working or are deemed major focus for a release. Highly likely that it will be included in the target release.

    P2 - High/Major priority. Non-critical, but significant issues where a workaround may exist. Likely to be included in the target release.

    P3 - Medium/Normal priority. Issue may interrupt expected behavior but a workaround exists. Possibly included in target release pending higher priority targeted items are completed.

    P4 - Low/Minor priority. Workaround exists, typically a cosmetic issue or other minor bug. Not likely to make it in targeted release unless all other higher priority items are completed.

    Note that priorities and target releases can change based on new developments, issues, and business goals.

 

If you have any additional questions, concerns, or comments about any issues you have opened or the process, please contact your Goliath representative.