Goliath and ChromeOS – Full User Experience Visibility

Authored by Citrix CTP Benjamin Crill Experience monitoring is a powerful tool and an advantage to any administrator.  However, even with the tooling, sometimes the view isn’t always complete.  Most monitoring tools focus only on the resources being accessed.  Some bring in additional information about the hosting and networking those resources are on.  But in any EUC solution, the device that is accessing is integral to the end-user experience. The types of devices being used continue to evolve.  Given cost concerns, security concerns, and supply chain concerns, many organizations are looking to deploy ChromeOS devices.  The ease of deployment and low cost make them a compelling solution.  The drawback to them is around device management.  What makes them easy to deploy also makes them a challenge to support post-deployment in an enterprise.  Endpoint monitoring typically involves some agent-based deployment reporting to a central server, which is not an option with ChromeOS.  A lack of visibility into the endpoint and its impact to end user productivity is a big risk for an enterprise to take.  Because the Chrome device will be the newest change to the end user, it is the most likely to be the focal point of any complaints.  It’s human nature to assume those problems result from the new change, but often that isn’t the case.

Goliath’s industry-only partnership with Google provides access to deep health metrics of any device running ChromeOS and removes this major blind spot.  Without deploying extra solutions to integrate the Goliath Performance Monitor and Google Enterprise Upgrade, administrators can now get a full picture of the user experience from the data center, through the network, down to the device.

Integrating the two platforms is quick and easy, requiring five simple steps.  Once completed, an enterprise’s full inventory of ChromeOS endpoints is discovered and added, and any new device registered inside Google Enterprise will automatically provide health telemetry to Goliath.  There are no third-party integrations or customizations to manage because Goliath leverages Google’s native API.  Now administrators can quickly determine if the new Chromebook is contributing to any user experience issues or if another component in the solution stack is at fault.  

The breadth of information on endpoint performance provided by the manufacturer, coupled with the information Goliath brings in from Citrix, allows administrators to quickly correlate any endpoint issues with Citrix and vice versa.  If a Citrix session is struggling and the endpoint is fine, the administrator has the data to focus on Citrix.  If the endpoint is having performance issues impacting the Citrix solution, that can be quickly remediated.  The major advantage is that all of this is aggregated centrally to the Goliath console so that support personnel don’t have to compare data from multiple interfaces.   
