Goliath Technologies Achieves Record First-Half 2022 Growth Partnerships with Google, Oracle Cerner, and Citrix fueled customer acquisition and growth

Philadelphia, PA – August 10, 2022 – Goliath Technologies, a leader in end-user experience monitoring and troubleshooting software for hybrid cloud environments, announced today that they achieved record revenue growth during the first half of the calendar year 2022, up more than 45% YOY 2021. “We were fortunate to have a record year in 2021 and during that time made investments in personnel and products that have allowed us to accelerate into 2022 with the entire team intact,” said Thomas Charlton, Chairman and CEO of Goliath. “Our industry only partnerships enable us to provide additional value to our clients and the overall IT market, which is challenged with providing a great user experience in an increasingly distributed workforce with hybrid IT environments including applications and workloads on premises and in many cases, multiple public clouds.” Goliath delivers exceptional value in these complex, hybrid multi-cloud environments by proactively identifying the true root cause of performance issues so that our technology partners are not incorrectly identified as the cause of performance issues. The key to Goliath’s value is a combination of embedded intelligence and automation that proactively looks for events, conditions, and failure points in this complicated mesh of technologies and provides IT the telemetry they need to resolve performance issues before they become end-user experience problems. “With Goliath’s software in place, we didn’t have to hire more staff to manage our environment, it was like we added a whole team with a single tool,” said Brian Diamond, CEO of LANStatus. About Goliath TechnologiesGoliath Technologies enhances end-user experience by enabling proactive IT. Our end-user experience management, monitoring, and troubleshooting products leverage embedded intelligence and automation to proactively identify events and conditions that cause performance issues and resolve them automatically with self-healing capabilities before end users are impacted. Armed with our portfolio of software solutions, IT Pros can deliver a seamless end-user experience regardless of where workloads, applications, or users are located. Customers include Universal Health Services, Ascension, CommonSpirit Health, Penn National Insurance, American Airlines, Liberty Mutual, Bell Canada, Xerox, HCL, and others. Learn how we Power Proactive IT at goliathtechnologies.com.  

Continue Your Research on How to Isolate and Prove Root Cause of End User Experience Issues

Top 5 Airline Uses Goliath’s Application Availability Testing as a Service with AWS Monitoring

Deliver Great Remote User Experience on Citrix Workspace

Citrix & Epic Issues Prevented Before Impacting 25,000 Users