Google & Goliath Technologies Partner to Deliver ChromeOS Device Monitoring & Troubleshooting   Philadelphia, PA – October 24th, 2022 – Goliath Technologies, a leader in end-user experience monitoring and troubleshooting software for hybrid cloud environments, announced a strategic partnership with Google to help businesses with a Google Enterprise license quickly identify and isolate the true root causes of IT performance issues, determining if it is related to Google ChromeOS & ChromeOS Flex devices or other components of their infrastructure by automatically and intelligently correlating all the key data from their IT environment. This deep integration between Google ChromeOS and Goliath Technologies gives IT professionals a comprehensive view of key health data of ChromeOS devices such as Chromebook and Chromeboxes correlated with other IT elements that could potentially impact end-user experience, including Citrix and/or VMware Horizon and all supporting infrastructure components. This intelligent insight reduces remediation times significantly for businesses and provides documentation so permanent fix actions can be put into place. “When end-user experience issues are attributed to Google ChromeOS Devices, IT professionals often don’t have the data to prove that the Google ChromeOS Devices are healthy and not the root cause of the issue,” said Goliath Technologies CEO Thomas Charlton. “Goliath proactively identifies the true root cause of performance issues so that our partners’ products are not incorrectly identified as the cause of performance issues. This new feature to support ChromeOS Device Endpoints is critical as Google continues to advance their position in enterprise IT.” “A call comes in and someone says their Google Chromebook isn’t working because the application is slow,” said Scott Urofsky, CTO, Systems Solutions Inc. “We login to Goliath’s End-User Experience Management software and we can see the health of the Google Chrome Device and other possible sources of performance degradation including user behavior, Citrix delivery infrastructure, server layer, and end-user network connection so ‘true’ root cause can be identified.” Solution highlights include:

Ability to view Chromebook and other ChromeOS Device details on performance and usage metrics like CPU, memory, disk, network usage, battery health, local network signal strength, and CPU temperature to quickly diagnose issues impacting overall device performance. Discover and view all ChromeOS Devices automatically and quickly locate them within your overall inventory using the quick filter option. In a central console see ChromeOS Device health, Citrix and IT delivery infrastructure performance that can impact end user experience. Troubleshoot the root cause of end user experience issues by correlating ChromeOS Device health and Citrix session performance metrics.

 

Learn More

About Goliath Technologies: Goliath Technologies enhances end-user experience by enabling proactive IT. Our end-user experience management, monitoring, and troubleshooting products leverage embedded intelligence and automation to proactively identify events and conditions that cause performance issues and resolve them automatically with self-healing capabilities before end users are impacted. Armed with our portfolio of software solutions, IT Pros can deliver a seamless end-user experience regardless of where workloads, applications, or users are located. www.goliathtechnologies.com Customers include: Universal Health Services, Ascension, CommonSpirit Health, Office Depot, American Airlines, Liberty Mutual, Bell Canada, Xerox, HCL, and others.