Partnerships with Oracle and Google help drive record growth in 2022   Philadelphia, PA – January 12, 2023 – Goliath Technologies, a leader in end-user experience monitoring and troubleshooting software, ended 2022 on a high note with significant growth in both employee headcount and revenue. The company also added 50 new enterprise clients thanks to strong demand for Goliath’s industry-leading solutions.  “We had another record year in 2022, making this the third consecutive year of continued growth. We achieved this by further investing in our products, partnerships, and people so we could continue to expand at an increasing pace,” noted Thomas Charlton, Chairman and CEO of Goliath.   In addition to this impressive growth, Goliath Technologies made waves in the industry with the release of its new monitoring and troubleshooting solution for ChromeOS devices. This solution, which is the only one of its kind on the market, helps IT professionals proactively identify and resolve end-user experience issues on ChromeOS devices, ensuring successful ChromeOS device deployments.  Goliath Technologies also made strides in its commitment to industry collaboration including becoming a member of KLAS, a leading healthcare technology research firm. A recent KLAS case study on the improved reliability and response time of Intermountain Healthcare’s EHR showed that the use of Goliath Technologies’ solution was key to success, resulting in an increase of 26% in reliability, 22% in systems response, and 15% in delivery quality. “Collaboration is key to ensuring we are developing the best possible solutions for our customers,” says Keary Pence, Director of Product Marketing at Goliath. “We are uniquely positioned with industry-only partnerships and are looking to expand our partnerships even more in 2023.”  As part of Goliath’s impressive growth and team expansion in 2022, Shawn Brady was appointed as Chief Revenue Officer. Brady is a veteran high-tech leader and sales executive, overseeing the global sales organization and client success teams as the company enters its next phase of growth. Another key hire was Keary Pence, Director of Product Marketing. Keary brings a breadth of industry experience across marketing, enablement, sales, and channel teams at leading technology organizations.   “We are thrilled to end the year on such a strong note and are excited to continue this momentum in the coming year,” said Charlton. “Our team has worked hard to deliver innovative solutions that meet the needs of our customers, and we are looking forward to expanding our capabilities even further in 2023.” 

  About Goliath Technologies  Goliath Technologies offers end-user experience monitoring and troubleshooting software, with embedded intelligence and automation, that enables IT pros to anticipate, troubleshoot, and document performance issues regardless of where workloads, applications, or users are located. By doing so, Goliath helps IT break out of reactive mode, and into proactive mode. Customers include Universal Health Services, NorthBay Healthcare, Enterprise Rent-A-Car, Penn National Insurance, American Airlines, Office Depot, Tech Mahindra, Pacific Life, Xerox, HCL, and others. Learn more about how we empower proactive IT at goliathtechnologies.com. 