Goliath Appoints Shawn Brady as Chief Revenue Officer    Philadelphia, PA – December 6th, 2022 – Goliath Technologies, a leader in end-user experience monitoring and troubleshooting software, announced today the appointment of Shawn Brady as Chief Revenue Officer. Brady, a veteran high-tech leader and sales executive, will oversee the entire global sales organization and client success teams to help drive the company’s next phase of growth.  Brady is a talented sales and operations leader with nearly 20 years of sales leadership experience building high performing mid-market and enterprise sales teams from the ground up. He is known for creating, developing, and getting the most out of high-performance teams by defining clear mission and goals, aligning people and resources, and consistently performing above expectations.   Shawn has held senior leadership roles at five different Insight Venture Partners companies. He spent the last seven years in the Identity and Security space where he recently served as the Vice President of Americas at Delinea. Prior to this, he was the Vice President of Sales at Thycotic and was instrumental in growing the revenues from $20M to $100M+, resulting in a Unicorn valuation of $1.4B and a successful exit. Earlier in his career, he served as the Vice President of Worldwide Sales at PHD Virtual where revenues sharply grew by 150%+ resulting in another positive exit. In addition to these roles, Shawn has held other sales leadership roles at Unitrends and Shunra Software. His experience in sales, customer retention and deployment, and maximizing traditional and next generation sales functions has given him the knowledge and insight to accelerate top line revenue and client satisfaction across business-to-business software companies.  “We are thrilled to have Shawn join the Goliath team. His wealth of experience in leading high-performing teams and accelerating business performance is exactly what is needed to support us in our next phase of growth,” said Thomas Charlton, Chairman and CEO of Goliath Technologies. “His appointment is timely as we continue to see rapid expansion and expect to bring new monitoring and troubleshooting capabilities to our product in 2023.”  “It is an exciting time to join an organization that is delivering great value, especially as new features are constantly being added to the product,” says Brady, Chief Revenue Officer at Goliath Technologies. “I look forward to expanding Goliath’s reach to bring further value to our customers, helping IT teams to solve complex challenges with software.”   

About Goliath Technologies: Goliath Technologies enhances end-user experience by enabling proactive IT. Our end-user experience management, monitoring, and troubleshooting products leverage embedded intelligence and automation to proactively identify events and conditions that cause performance issues and resolve them automatically with self-healing capabilities before end users are impacted. Armed with our portfolio of software solutions, IT Pros can deliver a seamless end-user experience regardless of where workloads, applications, or users are located. www.goliathtechnologies.com Customers include: Universal Health Services, Ascension, CommonSpirit Health, Office Depot, American Airlines, Liberty Mutual, Bell Canada, Xerox, HCL, and others.