Goliath Technologies Launches Intelligent Cloud Monitoring Solution    A SaaS-based platform that comes with embedded intelligence and automation to help IT professionals quickly and efficiently manage AWS and Azure cloud environments from a central dashboard.    Philadelphia, PA – February 8, 2023 –Goliath Technologies, a leader in end-user experience monitoring and troubleshooting software, has today announced the launch of Goliath Cloud Monitor – a new cloud monitoring platform that provides centralized monitoring of AWS and Azure cloud environments from a single location. With 75% of organizations worldwide implementing a multi-cloud strategy, the market demand for effective cloud monitoring solutions has never been greater.  Managing multiple cloud environments has become increasingly complex, so Goliath designed and launched a platform with ease-of-use in mind, that comes pre-built with embedded intelligence and smart policies. It automatically informs you as to what elements you should be monitoring and alerts you when performance thresholds are exceeded based on industry best practices, allowing you and your team to be operational in minutes.  “The market opportunity for cloud monitoring solutions is enormous, as more and more organizations adopt multi-cloud strategies and seek ways to manage their complex cloud environments,” said Thomas Charlton, CEO of Goliath Technologies. “Recent investments in tools like Nerdio, who received a $107 million investment from Updata Partners, are a clear indication of the market’s growing interest in this space, and we’re excited to bring our innovative solution to market and help organizations better manage their cloud environment with confidence and ease.”  Edgar Zacharjev, VP of Marketing at Goliath Technologies, added, “We believe that the future of cloud computing is multi-cloud, and our platform is designed to help organizations navigate this complex landscape with ease. With real-time insights and expert guidance built-in, our platform makes it easy for organizations to monitor their cloud environment and ensure optimal performance.”  Goliath Technologies’ cloud monitoring platform is available immediately, and the company is offering a 14-day free trial to help customers get started.  Get your 14-day free trial of Goliath Cloud Monitor here.   About Goliath Technologies Goliath Technologies offers end-user experience monitoring and troubleshooting software, with embedded intelligence and automation, that enables IT pros to anticipate, troubleshoot, and document performance issues regardless of where workloads, applications, or users are located. By doing so, Goliath helps IT break out of reactive mode, and into proactive mode. Customers include Universal Health Services, NorthBay Healthcare, Enterprise Rent-A-Car, Penn National Insurance, American Airlines, Office Depot, Tech Mahindra, Pacific Life, Xerox, HCL, and others. Learn more about how we empower proactive IT at goliathtechnologies.com.   
